# structured-output
### Please read our [article](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.21791) for further information.
`gsm8k` folder records the causal discovery process of Grade School Math 8K.
- `gsm8k_json.ipynb`, `gsm8k_xml.ipynb`, and `gsm8k_yaml.ipynb` corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.
- `gsm8k_json_additional_intervention`, `gsm8k_xml_additional_intervention`, `gsm8k_yaml_additional_intervention`, corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML under additional intervention of instructions, respectively.
- `llama_gsm8k_json.ipynb`, `llama_gsm8k_xml.ipynb`, `llama_gsm8k_yaml.ipynb`, corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.
- `gemma_gsm8k_json.ipynb`, `gemma_gsm8k_xml.ipynb`, `gemma_gsm8k_yaml.ipynb`, corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.
- `phi_gsm8k_json.ipynb`, `phi_gsm8k_xml.ipynb`, `phi_gsm8k_yaml.ipynb`, corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.

`llc` folder records the results of Last Letter Concatenation.
- `llc_json.ipynb`, `llc_xml.ipynb`, and `llc_yaml.ipynb` corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.

`ellc` folder records the causal discovery process of Enhanced Last Letter Concatenation.
- `ellc_json.ipynb`, `ellc_xml.ipynb`, and `ellc_yaml.ipynb` corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.

`sot` folder records the causal discovery process of Shuffled Objects Tracking.
- `sot_json.ipynb`, `sot_xml.ipynb`, and `sot_yaml.ipynb` corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.

`gcf` folder records the causal discovery process of German Credit Factuality.
- `gcf_json.ipynb`, `gcf_xml.ipynb`, and `gcf_yaml.ipynb` corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.
- `gcf_json_1.ipynb` and `gcf_json_2.ipynb` corresponds to the additional first and second API calls in the causal discovery process of JSON, respectively.
- `gcf_xml_1.ipynb` and `gcf_xml_2.ipynb` corresponds to the additional first and second API calls in the causal discovery process of XML, respectively.
- `gcf_yaml_1.ipynb` and `gcf_yaml_2.ipynb` corresponds to the additional first and second API calls in the causal discovery process of YAML, respectively.

`gcc` folder records the causal discovery process of German Credit Causality.
- `gcc_json.ipynb`, `gcc_xml.ipynb`, and `gcc_yaml.ipynb` corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.

`opseval` folder records the causal discovery process of Operations-oriented Evaluation.
- `opseval_json.ipynb`, `opseval_xml.ipynb`, and `opseval_yaml.ipynb` corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.
- `mobile_communication_network_reasoning.json` records the problems requiring reasoning in opseval dataset. 

`xcodeeval` folder records the causal discovery process of Execution-based Code Evaluation.
- `code_json.ipynb`, `code_xml.ipynb`, and `code_yaml.ipynb` corresponds to the causal discovery process of JSON, XML, and YAML, respectively.

`ellc_dataset` folder contains four datasets and benchmark results related to the ELLC task.

- `ellc_4_words.json` and `ellc_6_words.json` refer to last letter concatenation of 4 and 6 words, respectively.
- `emlc_4_words.json` and `emlc_6_words.json` stand for middle letter concatenation of 4 and 6 words, respectively.
- `ellc_benchmark.ipynb` records the code and results of benchmark study on ELLC.

Structured outputs above is generated by format-restricting instruction and function calling-based JSON generation is presented in the following files in each folder.
- `gsm8k_json_function_call.ipynb`, `llc_json_function_call.ipynb`, `ellc_json_function_call.ipynb`, `sot_json_function_call.ipynb`, `gcf_json_function_call.ipynb`, `gcc_json_function_call.ipynb`, `opseval_json_function_call.ipynb`, `code_json_function_call.ipynb`

## BibTeX Citation

If you use our findings in a scientific publication, we would appreciate using the following citations:

```
@inproceedings{yuan-etal-structured-output,
    title = "Quantifying the Impact of Structured Output Format on Large Language Models through Causal Inference",
    author = "Yuan, Han  and
      Zhao, Yue  and
      Zhang, Li  and
      Luo, Wuqiong  and
      Ma, Zheng",
    booktitle = "Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EACL 2026",
    year = "2024",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
}
```
